docs/why-not-mem0.md, before:

# Why Not Use mem0 for Wukong's Knowledge Base?

> An analysis of whether Wukong should adopt mem0 as its memory layer, or continue with its custom knowledge base system.

**TL;DR:** Wukong should **keep its custom knowledge base** for core functionality, but could **optionally integrate mem0** for user preference tracking and cross-session context.

---

## Table of Contents
- [What is mem0?](#what-is-mem0)
- [Wukong's Knowledge Base Requirements](#wukongs-knowledge-base-requirements)
- [Comparison Analysis](#comparison-analysis)
- [Where mem0 Could Help](#where-mem0-could-help)
- [Where Wukong's Solution is Better](#where-wukongs-solution-is-better)
- [Recommended Hybrid Approach](#recommended-hybrid-approach)

---

## What is mem0?

[mem0](https://docs.mem0.ai/) is a universal, self-improving memory layer for LLM applications that provides:

- **Persistent Memory Storage:** Maintains user context and preferences across sessions
- **Automatic Deduplication:** Intelligently merges and updates memories
- **Seamless Integration:** Works with various platforms including Vercel AI SDK
- **Self-Improving:** Memory quality improves over time with usage

**Core Use Case:** Tracking user preferences, conversation history, and context for personalized AI interactions.

---

## Wukong's Knowledge Base Requirements

Based on our design documents ([Knowledge Base System](./design/04-knowledge-base.md)), Wukong requires:

### 1. Multi-Level Permission System

```typescript
enum PermissionLevel {
  PUBLIC = 'public',           // Visible to everyone
  ORGANIZATION = 'organization', // Visible within organization
  INDIVIDUAL = 'individual'     // Visible only to individual
}
```

**Critical Feature:** Organization-level knowledge sharing with fine-grained access control.

### 2. Document-Based Knowledge Base

- Support for multiple file formats (PDF, Markdown, DOCX, HTML, TXT)
- Automatic indexing and chunking
- Chunk-level metadata tracking (filename, page number, upload info)
- File system integration (local, Vercel Blob, S3)

### 3. Token Optimization Integration

- **Skills Lazy Loading:** Only load matched Skills documents (98% token savings)
- **Smart Retrieval:** Vector search with permission filtering
- **Context Compression:** Summarize and compress knowledge for sub-agents

### 4. Session History Management

- **Smart Step Discarding:** LLM actively marks unnecessary steps
- **Checkpoint System:** Undo/restore to any point
- **History Compression:** Aggregate steps for sub-agent context

---

## Comparison Analysis

| Feature | Wukong Custom | mem0 | Winner |
|---------|---------------|------|--------|
| **Permission System** | ✅ Public/Org/Individual | ❌ User-level only | **Wukong** |
| **Document Indexing** | ✅ PDF/MD/DOCX/HTML | ❌ Conversation-focused | **Wukong** |
| **File System Integration** | ✅ Local/Blob/S3 | ❌ Not primary use case | **Wukong** |
| **Token Optimization** | ✅ Skills lazy loading | ❌ No concept | **Wukong** |
| **Session History** | ✅ Step discarding | ❌ Different paradigm | **Wukong** |
| **User Preferences** | 🔶 Manual extraction | ✅ Automatic tracking | **mem0** |
| **Cross-Session Context** | 🔶 Requires custom code | ✅ Built-in | **mem0** |
| **Auto-Deduplication** | 🔶 LLM-based | ✅ Built-in algorithm | **mem0** |
| **Memory Improvement** | ❌ Not implemented | ✅ Self-improving | **mem0** |

---

## Where mem0 Could Help

### 1. User Preference Tracking

**Current Wukong Approach:**

```typescript
// Manual extraction via LLM
const extracted = await llm.call({
  prompt: `
# Task
Extract user preferences from the conversation.

# Instructions
- Extract preferences specific to the individual
- Examples: writing style, preferred tools, formatting choices

# Output Format
{
  "knowledges": [{
    "content": "extracted preference",
    "confidence_score": 0.8,
    "level": "Individual"
  }]
}
`,
  model: 'gpt-5.1-instant'
})
```

**With mem0:**

```typescript
import { MemoryClient } from 'mem0ai'

class WukongMemoryAdapter {
  private memory: MemoryClient
  
  async storeUserPreference(userId: string, content: string) {
    // mem0 handles deduplication and merging automatically
    await this.memory.add({
      messages: [{ role: 'assistant', content }],
      user_id: userId,
      metadata: { type: 'preference' }
    })
  }
  
  async getUserPreferences(userId: string) {
    // Retrieve all preferences for user
    return await this.memory.search('user preferences', {
      user_id: userId,
      filters: { type: 'preference' }
    })
  }
}
```

**Advantage:** Automatic deduplication, no need for manual LLM-based comparison.

### 2. Cross-Session User Context

**Current Wukong Approach:** Each session starts fresh unless explicitly loading previous sessions.

**With mem0:** Automatically maintain context across sessions:

```typescript
// Before executing task, get relevant user context
const userContext = await memory.search(userQuery, {
  user_id: userId,
  limit: 5
})

// Include in prompt automatically
const prompt = promptBuilder.build({
  goal: session.goal,
  userContext: userContext,  // 🆕 Long-term user context
  knowledge: knowledgeBase,   // Organization/public knowledge
  // ...
})
```

---

## Where Wukong's Solution is Better

### 1. Organization-Level Knowledge Sharing

**Requirement:** Team members need to share knowledge within an organization.

**Example Scenario:**
- Public knowledge: "How to use Midjourney API"
- Organization knowledge: "Company's brand guidelines for image generation"
- Individual knowledge: "User prefers dark mode and minimalist style"

**Why Wukong's Custom Solution:**

```typescript
// Permission-based retrieval
async search(query: string, userId: string, orgId: string) {
  const results = await vectorAdapter.search(query, topK: 10)
  
  // Filter by permission level
  return results.filter(result => {
    if (result.permissions.level === 'public') return true
    if (result.permissions.level === 'organization') {
      return result.permissions.orgId === orgId  // 🔑 Org-level sharing
    }
    if (result.permissions.level === 'individual') {
      return result.permissions.userId === userId
    }
    return false
  })
}
```

**mem0 limitation:** Only supports user-level isolation, no native organization concept.

### 2. Document-Based Knowledge Base

**Wukong's Use Cases:**
- Index product documentation (100+ markdown files)
- Process company policy PDFs
- Extract information from Excel/CSV files
- Index code repositories

**Why Wukong's Custom Solution:**

```typescript
// Automatic document indexing
const files = await filesAdapter.list(knowledgeBasePath)

const chunks = documents.flatMap(doc => 
  chunkDocument(doc, {
    chunkSize: 1000,
    overlap: 200,
    preserveHeadings: true  // Maintain document structure
  })
)

// Store with rich metadata
await vectorAdapter.upsertBatch(
  chunks.map((chunk, i) => ({
    id: chunk.id,
    vector: embeddings[i],
    metadata: {
      filename: chunk.filename,
      pageNumber: chunk.pageNumber,
      section: chunk.section,
      uploadedBy: userId,
      permissions: { level: 'organization', orgId }
    }
  }))
)
```

**mem0 limitation:** Designed for conversational memory, not document indexing workflows.

### 3. Token Optimization Through Skills System

**Wukong's Architecture:**

```
User Request: "Generate an Excel chart"
  ↓
Skills Matcher:
  - Keyword match: "excel" → Excel Handler
  - Semantic match: "chart" → Chart Generator
  - Load ONLY matched Skills (2 × 3KB = 6KB)
  - Ignore other 48 Skills (144KB)
  ↓
Token Savings: 96%
```

This is deeply integrated with:
- Skills metadata system
- Lazy loading architecture
- MCP Code Execution pattern

**mem0 limitation:** No concept of skills or selective loading, incompatible paradigm.

### 4. Step History and Compression

**Wukong's Smart History Management:**

```typescript
// LLM actively manages its own context
interface AgentResponse {
  action: string
  reasoning: string
  parameters: any
  discardableSteps?: number[]  // 🔑 LLM marks useless steps
}

// Auto-discard based on rules
// ✅ Can discard:
// - Confirmation steps with no new information
// - Drafts replaced by better versions
// - Error attempts immediately corrected

// ❌ Must keep:
// - User's original requirements
// - Final effective solutions
// - Error patterns that may reoccur
// - Last 5 steps
```

**mem0 limitation:** Different memory model, focused on factual memory not step-by-step execution history.

---

## Recommended Hybrid Approach

### Strategy: Use Both Systems for Different Purposes

```typescript
interface WukongAgentConfig {
  // Core knowledge base (REQUIRED)
  knowledgeBase: {
    path: string
    permissions: PermissionConfig
  }
  
  // Optional mem0 integration (OPTIONAL)
  memory?: {
    type: 'mem0'
    config: {
      apiKey: string
      endpoint?: string
    }
  }
}
```

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Wukong Agent                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                          │
│  Query Processing                                        │
│  ├── 1. Vector Knowledge Base (Wukong Custom)          │
│  │    ├── Public Knowledge                             │
│  │    ├── Organization Knowledge                       │
│  │    └── Document Indexing                            │
│  │                                                      │
│  ├── 2. User Memory (mem0 - Optional)                  │
│  │    ├── User Preferences                             │
│  │    ├── Cross-Session Context                        │
│  │    └── Auto-Improving Memory                        │
│  │                                                      │
│  └── 3. Session History (Wukong Custom)                │
│       ├── Step-by-step execution                       │
│       ├── Smart step discarding                        │
│       └── Checkpoint/Undo support                      │
│                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Implementation Example

```typescript
class WukongAgent {
  private knowledgeBase: KnowledgeBase      // Core system
  private memoryAdapter?: MemoryAdapter     // Optional mem0
  private sessionHistory: SessionManager    // Core system
  
  async think(step: Step) {
    // 1. Query knowledge base (documents, org knowledge)
    const knowledge = await this.knowledgeBase.search({
      query: step.context,
      userId: this.session.userId,
      orgId: this.session.orgId,
      topK: 5
    })
    
    // 2. Query user memory (if mem0 enabled)
    let userContext = []
    if (this.memoryAdapter) {
      userContext = await this.memoryAdapter.search(step.context, {
        user_id: this.session.userId,
        limit: 3
      })
    }
    
    // 3. Get session history (with smart discarding)
    const history = this.sessionHistory.getActiveSteps()
    
    // 4. Build prompt with all sources
    const prompt = this.promptBuilder.build({
      goal: this.session.goal,
      knowledge: knowledge,           // Org/public knowledge
      userContext: userContext,       // User preferences (mem0)
      history: history,               // Session steps
      skills: this.matchedSkills      // Lazy-loaded skills
    })
    
    return await this.llm.call(prompt)
  }
  
  // After session completes
  async onSessionComplete(sessionId: string) {
    // 1. Extract organization knowledge (Wukong)
    await this.extractOrganizationKnowledge(sessionId)
    
    // 2. Update user memory (mem0)
    if (this.memoryAdapter) {
      const sessionSummary = await this.compressSession(sessionId)
      await this.memoryAdapter.add({
        messages: [{ role: 'assistant', content: sessionSummary }],
        user_id: this.session.userId
      })
    }
  }
}
```

---

## Decision Matrix

### Use Wukong's Custom Knowledge Base When:

- ✅ Need organization-level knowledge sharing
- ✅ Indexing documents (PDFs, Markdown, etc.)
- ✅ Require fine-grained permission control
- ✅ Need token optimization through Skills system
- ✅ Managing multi-step execution history
- ✅ Implementing checkpoint/undo features

### Consider Adding mem0 When:

- ✅ Want automatic user preference tracking
- ✅ Need seamless cross-session user context
- ✅ Prefer managed memory deduplication
- ✅ Want self-improving memory capabilities
- ✅ Willing to add external dependency

### Don't Replace Wukong with mem0 Because:

- ❌ Lose organization-level permissions
- ❌ Lose document indexing capabilities
- ❌ Lose token optimization features
- ❌ Lose Skills system integration
- ❌ Lose step management features
- ❌ Architectural mismatch for core use cases

---

## Implementation Recommendation

### Phase 1: Keep Core System (Now)

Focus on implementing Wukong's custom knowledge base with all planned features:

1. ✅ Document indexing with permission levels
2. ✅ Skills lazy loading
3. ✅ Smart step discarding
4. ✅ Session history management
5. ✅ Token optimization

### Phase 2: Evaluate mem0 Integration (Future)

After core system is stable, optionally add mem0 as an enhancement:

1. Create `MemoryAdapter` interface
2. Implement mem0 adapter as optional plugin
3. Use for user preference tracking only
4. Keep knowledge base as primary system

### Example Configuration

```typescript
// Without mem0 (core functionality works fine)
const agent = new WukongAgent({
  llmKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
  knowledgeBase: { path: './knowledge' },
  tools: { path: './tools' }
})

// With mem0 (enhanced user experience)
const agent = new WukongAgent({
  llmKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
  knowledgeBase: { path: './knowledge' },
  tools: { path: './tools' },
  memory: {
    type: 'mem0',
    apiKey: process.env.MEM0_API_KEY
  }
})
```

---

## Conclusion

**Wukong should NOT replace its knowledge base with mem0** because:

1. Core requirements (organization permissions, document indexing, token optimization) don't match mem0's design
2. Custom solution provides essential features that mem0 cannot replicate
3. Architecture is deeply integrated with Skills system and MCP pattern

**But Wukong COULD optionally integrate mem0** as a complementary layer for:

1. Enhanced user preference tracking
2. Automatic cross-session context
3. Self-improving memory capabilities

**Final Verdict:** Build Wukong's custom knowledge base as planned, consider mem0 as optional future enhancement.

---

## Related Documentation

- [Knowledge Base System Design](./design/04-knowledge-base.md)
- [Token Optimization Mechanisms](./design/08-token-optimization.md)
- [Database Design](./design/13-database-design.md)
- [Implementation Details](./design/10-implementation.md)

[← Back to README](../README.md)

Commit message:

Refactor token optimization mechanisms to implement Tool Executor mode. Update documentation and interfaces to replace MCP references with Tool Executor terminology, enhancing clarity and consistency. Ensure backward compatibility while improving token efficiency in agent workflows.

docs/why-not-mem0.md, after:

# Why Not Use mem0 for Wukong's Knowledge Base?

> An analysis of whether Wukong should adopt mem0 as its memory layer, or continue with its custom knowledge base system.

**TL;DR:** Wukong should **keep its custom knowledge base** for core functionality, but could **optionally integrate mem0** for user preference tracking and cross-session context.

---

## Table of Contents
- [What is mem0?](#what-is-mem0)
- [Wukong's Knowledge Base Requirements](#wukongs-knowledge-base-requirements)
- [Comparison Analysis](#comparison-analysis)
- [Where mem0 Could Help](#where-mem0-could-help)
- [Where Wukong's Solution is Better](#where-wukongs-solution-is-better)
- [Recommended Hybrid Approach](#recommended-hybrid-approach)

---

## What is mem0?

[mem0](https://docs.mem0.ai/) is a universal, self-improving memory layer for LLM applications that provides:

- **Persistent Memory Storage:** Maintains user context and preferences across sessions
- **Automatic Deduplication:** Intelligently merges and updates memories
- **Seamless Integration:** Works with various platforms including Vercel AI SDK
- **Self-Improving:** Memory quality improves over time with usage

**Core Use Case:** Tracking user preferences, conversation history, and context for personalized AI interactions.

---

## Wukong's Knowledge Base Requirements

Based on our design documents ([Knowledge Base System](./design/04-knowledge-base.md)), Wukong requires:

### 1. Multi-Level Permission System

```typescript
enum PermissionLevel {
  PUBLIC = 'public',           // Visible to everyone
  ORGANIZATION = 'organization', // Visible within organization
  INDIVIDUAL = 'individual'     // Visible only to individual
}
```

**Critical Feature:** Organization-level knowledge sharing with fine-grained access control.

### 2. Document-Based Knowledge Base

- Support for multiple file formats (PDF, Markdown, DOCX, HTML, TXT)
- Automatic indexing and chunking
- Chunk-level metadata tracking (filename, page number, upload info)
- File system integration (local, Vercel Blob, S3)

### 3. Token Optimization Integration

- **Skills Lazy Loading:** Only load matched Skills documents (98% token savings)
- **Smart Retrieval:** Vector search with permission filtering
- **Context Compression:** Summarize and compress knowledge for sub-agents

### 4. Session History Management

- **Smart Step Discarding:** LLM actively marks unnecessary steps
- **Checkpoint System:** Undo/restore to any point
- **History Compression:** Aggregate steps for sub-agent context

---

## Comparison Analysis

| Feature | Wukong Custom | mem0 | Winner |
|---------|---------------|------|--------|
| **Permission System** | ✅ Public/Org/Individual | ❌ User-level only | **Wukong** |
| **Document Indexing** | ✅ PDF/MD/DOCX/HTML | ❌ Conversation-focused | **Wukong** |
| **File System Integration** | ✅ Local/Blob/S3 | ❌ Not primary use case | **Wukong** |
| **Token Optimization** | ✅ Skills lazy loading | ❌ No concept | **Wukong** |
| **Session History** | ✅ Step discarding | ❌ Different paradigm | **Wukong** |
| **User Preferences** | 🔶 Manual extraction | ✅ Automatic tracking | **mem0** |
| **Cross-Session Context** | 🔶 Requires custom code | ✅ Built-in | **mem0** |
| **Auto-Deduplication** | 🔶 LLM-based | ✅ Built-in algorithm | **mem0** |
| **Memory Improvement** | ❌ Not implemented | ✅ Self-improving | **mem0** |

---

## Where mem0 Could Help

### 1. User Preference Tracking

**Current Wukong Approach:**

```typescript
// Manual extraction via LLM
const extracted = await llm.call({
  prompt: `
# Task
Extract user preferences from the conversation.

# Instructions
- Extract preferences specific to the individual
- Examples: writing style, preferred tools, formatting choices

# Output Format
{
  "knowledges": [{
    "content": "extracted preference",
    "confidence_score": 0.8,
    "level": "Individual"
  }]
}
`,
  model: 'gpt-5.1-instant'
})
```

**With mem0:**

```typescript
import { MemoryClient } from 'mem0ai'

class WukongMemoryAdapter {
  private memory: MemoryClient
  
  async storeUserPreference(userId: string, content: string) {
    // mem0 handles deduplication and merging automatically
    await this.memory.add({
      messages: [{ role: 'assistant', content }],
      user_id: userId,
      metadata: { type: 'preference' }
    })
  }
  
  async getUserPreferences(userId: string) {
    // Retrieve all preferences for user
    return await this.memory.search('user preferences', {
      user_id: userId,
      filters: { type: 'preference' }
    })
  }
}
```

**Advantage:** Automatic deduplication, no need for manual LLM-based comparison.

### 2. Cross-Session User Context

**Current Wukong Approach:** Each session starts fresh unless explicitly loading previous sessions.

**With mem0:** Automatically maintain context across sessions:

```typescript
// Before executing task, get relevant user context
const userContext = await memory.search(userQuery, {
  user_id: userId,
  limit: 5
})

// Include in prompt automatically
const prompt = promptBuilder.build({
  goal: session.goal,
  userContext: userContext,  // 🆕 Long-term user context
  knowledge: knowledgeBase,   // Organization/public knowledge
  // ...
})
```

---

## Where Wukong's Solution is Better

### 1. Organization-Level Knowledge Sharing

**Requirement:** Team members need to share knowledge within an organization.

**Example Scenario:**
- Public knowledge: "How to use Midjourney API"
- Organization knowledge: "Company's brand guidelines for image generation"
- Individual knowledge: "User prefers dark mode and minimalist style"

**Why Wukong's Custom Solution:**

```typescript
// Permission-based retrieval
async search(query: string, userId: string, orgId: string) {
  const results = await vectorAdapter.search(query, topK: 10)
  
  // Filter by permission level
  return results.filter(result => {
    if (result.permissions.level === 'public') return true
    if (result.permissions.level === 'organization') {
      return result.permissions.orgId === orgId  // 🔑 Org-level sharing
    }
    if (result.permissions.level === 'individual') {
      return result.permissions.userId === userId
    }
    return false
  })
}
```

**mem0 limitation:** Only supports user-level isolation, no native organization concept.

### 2. Document-Based Knowledge Base

**Wukong's Use Cases:**
- Index product documentation (100+ markdown files)
- Process company policy PDFs
- Extract information from Excel/CSV files
- Index code repositories

**Why Wukong's Custom Solution:**

```typescript
// Automatic document indexing
const files = await filesAdapter.list(knowledgeBasePath)

const chunks = documents.flatMap(doc => 
  chunkDocument(doc, {
    chunkSize: 1000,
    overlap: 200,
    preserveHeadings: true  // Maintain document structure
  })
)

// Store with rich metadata
await vectorAdapter.upsertBatch(
  chunks.map((chunk, i) => ({
    id: chunk.id,
    vector: embeddings[i],
    metadata: {
      filename: chunk.filename,
      pageNumber: chunk.pageNumber,
      section: chunk.section,
      uploadedBy: userId,
      permissions: { level: 'organization', orgId }
    }
  }))
)
```

**mem0 limitation:** Designed for conversational memory, not document indexing workflows.

### 3. Token Optimization Through Skills System

**Wukong's Architecture:**

```
User Request: "Generate an Excel chart"
  ↓
Skills Matcher:
  - Keyword match: "excel" → Excel Handler
  - Semantic match: "chart" → Chart Generator
  - Load ONLY matched Skills (2 × 3KB = 6KB)
  - Ignore other 48 Skills (144KB)
  ↓
Token Savings: 96%
```

This is deeply integrated with:
- Skills metadata system
- Lazy loading architecture
- Tool Executor mode pattern

**mem0 limitation:** No concept of skills or selective loading, incompatible paradigm.

### 4. Step History and Compression

**Wukong's Smart History Management:**

```typescript
// LLM actively manages its own context
interface AgentResponse {
  action: string
  reasoning: string
  parameters: any
  discardableSteps?: number[]  // 🔑 LLM marks useless steps
}

// Auto-discard based on rules
// ✅ Can discard:
// - Confirmation steps with no new information
// - Drafts replaced by better versions
// - Error attempts immediately corrected

// ❌ Must keep:
// - User's original requirements
// - Final effective solutions
// - Error patterns that may reoccur
// - Last 5 steps
```

**mem0 limitation:** Different memory model, focused on factual memory not step-by-step execution history.

---

## Recommended Hybrid Approach

### Strategy: Use Both Systems for Different Purposes

```typescript
interface WukongAgentConfig {
  // Core knowledge base (REQUIRED)
  knowledgeBase: {
    path: string
    permissions: PermissionConfig
  }
  
  // Optional mem0 integration (OPTIONAL)
  memory?: {
    type: 'mem0'
    config: {
      apiKey: string
      endpoint?: string
    }
  }
}
```

### Architecture Diagram

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Wukong Agent                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                          │
│  Query Processing                                        │
│  ├── 1. Vector Knowledge Base (Wukong Custom)          │
│  │    ├── Public Knowledge                             │
│  │    ├── Organization Knowledge                       │
│  │    └── Document Indexing                            │
│  │                                                      │
│  ├── 2. User Memory (mem0 - Optional)                  │
│  │    ├── User Preferences                             │
│  │    ├── Cross-Session Context                        │
│  │    └── Auto-Improving Memory                        │
│  │                                                      │
│  └── 3. Session History (Wukong Custom)                │
│       ├── Step-by-step execution                       │
│       ├── Smart step discarding                        │
│       └── Checkpoint/Undo support                      │
│                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Implementation Example

```typescript
class WukongAgent {
  private knowledgeBase: KnowledgeBase      // Core system
  private memoryAdapter?: MemoryAdapter     // Optional mem0
  private sessionHistory: SessionManager    // Core system
  
  async think(step: Step) {
    // 1. Query knowledge base (documents, org knowledge)
    const knowledge = await this.knowledgeBase.search({
      query: step.context,
      userId: this.session.userId,
      orgId: this.session.orgId,
      topK: 5
    })
    
    // 2. Query user memory (if mem0 enabled)
    let userContext = []
    if (this.memoryAdapter) {
      userContext = await this.memoryAdapter.search(step.context, {
        user_id: this.session.userId,
        limit: 3
      })
    }
    
    // 3. Get session history (with smart discarding)
    const history = this.sessionHistory.getActiveSteps()
    
    // 4. Build prompt with all sources
    const prompt = this.promptBuilder.build({
      goal: this.session.goal,
      knowledge: knowledge,           // Org/public knowledge
      userContext: userContext,       // User preferences (mem0)
      history: history,               // Session steps
      skills: this.matchedSkills      // Lazy-loaded skills
    })
    
    return await this.llm.call(prompt)
  }
  
  // After session completes
  async onSessionComplete(sessionId: string) {
    // 1. Extract organization knowledge (Wukong)
    await this.extractOrganizationKnowledge(sessionId)
    
    // 2. Update user memory (mem0)
    if (this.memoryAdapter) {
      const sessionSummary = await this.compressSession(sessionId)
      await this.memoryAdapter.add({
        messages: [{ role: 'assistant', content: sessionSummary }],
        user_id: this.session.userId
      })
    }
  }
}
```

---

## Decision Matrix

### Use Wukong's Custom Knowledge Base When:

- ✅ Need organization-level knowledge sharing
- ✅ Indexing documents (PDFs, Markdown, etc.)
- ✅ Require fine-grained permission control
- ✅ Need token optimization through Skills system
- ✅ Managing multi-step execution history
- ✅ Implementing checkpoint/undo features

### Consider Adding mem0 When:

- ✅ Want automatic user preference tracking
- ✅ Need seamless cross-session user context
- ✅ Prefer managed memory deduplication
- ✅ Want self-improving memory capabilities
- ✅ Willing to add external dependency

### Don't Replace Wukong with mem0 Because:

- ❌ Lose organization-level permissions
- ❌ Lose document indexing capabilities
- ❌ Lose token optimization features
- ❌ Lose Skills system integration
- ❌ Lose step management features
- ❌ Architectural mismatch for core use cases

---

## Implementation Recommendation

### Phase 1: Keep Core System (Now)

Focus on implementing Wukong's custom knowledge base with all planned features:

1. ✅ Document indexing with permission levels
2. ✅ Skills lazy loading
3. ✅ Smart step discarding
4. ✅ Session history management
5. ✅ Token optimization

### Phase 2: Evaluate mem0 Integration (Future)

After core system is stable, optionally add mem0 as an enhancement:

1. Create `MemoryAdapter` interface
2. Implement mem0 adapter as optional plugin
3. Use for user preference tracking only
4. Keep knowledge base as primary system

### Example Configuration

```typescript
// Without mem0 (core functionality works fine)
const agent = new WukongAgent({
  llmKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
  knowledgeBase: { path: './knowledge' },
  tools: { path: './tools' }
})

// With mem0 (enhanced user experience)
const agent = new WukongAgent({
  llmKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
  knowledgeBase: { path: './knowledge' },
  tools: { path: './tools' },
  memory: {
    type: 'mem0',
    apiKey: process.env.MEM0_API_KEY
  }
})
```

---

## Conclusion

**Wukong should NOT replace its knowledge base with mem0** because:

1. Core requirements (organization permissions, document indexing, token optimization) don't match mem0's design
2. Custom solution provides essential features that mem0 cannot replicate
3. Architecture is deeply integrated with Skills system and Tool Executor pattern

**But Wukong COULD optionally integrate mem0** as a complementary layer for:

1. Enhanced user preference tracking
2. Automatic cross-session context
3. Self-improving memory capabilities

**Final Verdict:** Build Wukong's custom knowledge base as planned, consider mem0 as optional future enhancement.

---

## Related Documentation

- [Knowledge Base System Design](./design/04-knowledge-base.md)
- [Token Optimization Mechanisms](./design/08-token-optimization.md)
- [Database Design](./design/13-database-design.md)
- [Implementation Details](./design/10-implementation.md)

[← Back to README](../README.md)
